Hi everyone!
In this video we will learn copy lists in Python.
Let's start by small introduction.
You cannot copy a list simply by typing list two.
Equal list one, because list two will only be a reference to list one and the change is made in list
one will automatically also be made in list two.
Let's go to PyCharm and understand together these two lines.
Here we have list one which contains three items.
We assign list one to list two.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
With the operator assignment we have two Python list list one and list two, which contain the same
items.
If we can have two lists with the same items, only with the assignment operator.
Why we need a copy.
Let's continue with this code.
We will update the second item in the list.
Two.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
List two contain the new item orange in the index one, but also the list one is changed because list
one and list two share the same allocation memory.
For this reason, we need to use Python copy because with Python copy, each variable will be reference
to a different list.
Each variable have their own allocation memory.
Let's learn together the introduction.
You cannot copy a list simply by typing.
List two equals list one because list two will only be a reference to list one, and the changes made
in list one will automatically also be made in list two.
Let's start by the first section.
Use the copy method.
You can use the building list method copy to copy a list here.
In this example, we have a list with three items.
We use the method copy to have a new copy of the list.
Second, use the list method.
List is a method or also is a constructor which can use it.
To copy a Python list.
We need to pass our initial list as a parameter in the constructor, or in the method list to have a
new Python list.
Section three use the slice operator.
You can also make a copy of a list by using the slice operator when we don't specify the start value
and the end value.
We will take all the items of the list.
Let's go to PyCharm and understand more each of this case.
First copy a list using the method copy.
We have our initial list.
After that we execute the code.
This list copy and we will have a new Python list.
Let's execute this part of code.
This is a copy and it have the same items for the initial list.
We update the second item banana with the new item orange.
Initial list is the same, only the copy list is changed.
This is the reason why we need a copy list in Python.
Second section, use the list method or the list constructor.
Here we have our initial list.
We pass our list as a parameter in the constructor list to create our copy of the list.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
We have a new list which contains the same items for the initial list.
Let's try update the second item for the new list and see if the initial list will change it or not.
Our initial list contains three items.
Apple.
Banana.
Cherry.
Here, when we create our copy list, it contains.
Apple.
Banana.
Cherry.
After a change, we update the second item by orange.
After a change, we have apple, orange and cherry, but the initial list remained the same.
The initial item is banana is not changed.
Third, use the slice operator.
When we don't specify start and end value, we will copy.
All the items of the list.
Let's execute only the three line of code.
When we use the slice operator and we don't specify start and end value, we will copy all the items
of the list.
Let's do the same test like in the first and the second section.
We try to update the second item for the new list, and we see if the initial list was changed or not.
Let's execute the code.
This is my copy list.
Contain all the item like the initial list.
Apple.
Banana.
Cherry.
After the change of the second item, the new list contain apple, orange and cherry.
But the initial list like we see here, it remained the same.
The second item, always banana, is not changed.
Just remember that we cannot copy a list only by assigning list one to list two.
But we need to use one of three method to copy a list, the first using the method copy, the second
using the constructor list and the third using the slice operator.
That's it for this video.